Jan. 6: Trump hits back, saying Biden trying to 'further divide America' to distract from failures
Trump called Biden's Jan. 6 speech 'political theater' that is a 'distraction for the fact Biden has completely and totally failed'
Ronn Blitzer By Ronn Blitzer , Paul Conner | Fox News
Fox News Flash top headlines for January 6
Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what's clicking on Foxnews.com.

Former President Donald Trump responded to President Biden's sharp criticism in a Jan. 6 speech, saying his Democratic successor is trying to distract from his record.
Biden "used my name today to try to further divide America," Trump said in a statement. "This political theater is all just a distraction for the fact Biden has completely and totally failed."

BIDEN IN JAN. 6 SPEECH SHARPLY CRITICIZES TRUMP AS SPREADING ‘WEB OF LIES,’ STOKING RIOT

"Our Country no longer has Borders, has totally and completely lost control of Covid (record numbers!), is no longer Energy Independent, Inflation is rampant, our Military is in chaos, and our exit, or surrender, from Afghanistan was perhaps the most embarrassing day in the long and distinguished history of the United States—and so much more," Trump continued.

Former President Donald Trump leaves Trump Tower in Manhattan on Oct. 18, 2021, in New York City.  (James Devaney/GC Images)

Biden, in a speech delivered Thursday morning, took several shots at Trump, saying he "created and spread a web of lies about the 2020 election," and that he did this "because he values power over principle; he sees his own interest as more important than America’s interest; his bruised ego matters more to him than our democracy or our Constitution."

HARRIS DESCRIBES JAN. 6 ALONGSIDE PEARL HARBOR, 9/11 AS DATES THAT 'ECHO THROUGHOUT HISTORY'

In his response, the former president took a shot at the House committee investigating the events of Jan. 6, 2021, repeating his false claim that the 2020 presidential election was "rigged."

President Biden speaks from Statuary Hall at the U.S. Capitol to mark one year since the Jan. 6 riot at the Capitol by supporters loyal to then-President Donald Trump, Thursday, Jan. 6, 2022, in Washington. (AP Photo/Andrew Harnik)

Trump concluded by claiming that Democrats "want to own this day" in order to "stoke fears and divide America."

"I say, let them have it," Trump said, stating that "America sees through" their words and actions.