Former President Trump joined in on Atlanta Braves fans' tomahawk chop celebration Saturday night while attending Game 4 of the World Series Braves and Houston Astros.


Trump was in a suite at Truist Park with former first lady Melania Trump and others. When the celebration was cued up, Trump and other Braves fans indulged.


The tomahawk chop has been a source of controversy as the World Series moved back to Atlanta. The gesture has been decried as offensive to Native Americans. 

MLB Commissioner Rob Manfred was asked about the gesture earlier in the week. He said the Braves had the support of the Eastern Band of Cherokee Indians, who are based in North Carolina, about three hours from Atlanta.


"The Native American community in that region is wholly supportive of the Braves program, including the chop. For me, that’s kind of the end of the story. In that market, we’re taking into account the Native American community," Manfred said Tuesday.

Former President Donald Trump and his wife Melania perform the tomahawk chop cheer before Game 4 of baseball's World Series between the Houston Astros and the Atlanta Braves Saturday, Oct. 30, 2021, in Atlanta.

Richard Sneed, the principal chief of the Eastern Band of Cherokee Indians, told the Associated Press he would like more of the focus on other things plaguing Native Americans, including poverty, unemployment, child abuse, sexual assaults and suicide.

ASTROS FAN TARGETS BRAVES WITH 'THE CHOP IS RACIST' SIGN DURING WORLD SERIES

Former President Donald Trump and his wife Melania perform the tomahawk chop before Game 4 of baseball's World Series between the Houston Astros and the Atlanta Braves Saturday, Oct. 30, 2021, in Atlanta.
"I’m not offended by somebody waving their arm at a sports game. I’m just not. If somebody is, that’s their prerogative, it’s their right. They can be offended. ... I don’t know very many — maybe one or two — from my tribe who say, ‘Yeah, I don’t like that.’ But at the end of the day, we’ve got bigger issues to deal with," Sneed said.

placeholder
A fan holds a sign stating "the chop is racist" during the ninth inning in Game 1 of the World Series at Minute Maid Park Oct. 26, 2021 in Houston, Texas.

The National Congress of American Indians responded to Manfred, saying he missed the mark with his statement.

"In our discussions with the Atlanta Braves, we have repeatedly and unequivocally made our position clear: Native people are not mascots, and degrading rituals like the ‘tomahawk chop’ that dehumanize and harm us have no place in American society," NCAI President Fawn Sharp said in a statement, adding that the Braves should change their nickname and broadcasts should stop televising the gesture.


Manfred, however, backed the Braves and believed they were doing right by the Native American community.

"I don’t know how every Native American group around the country feels," he said. "I am 100% certain that the Braves understand what the Native American community in their region believes and that they’ve acted in accordance with that understanding."

In this  April 2021 file photo, Atlanta Braves fans do the Tomahawk Chop during a game against the Philadelphia Phillies in Atlanta. (AP Photo/John Bazemore, File)

CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP

Heading into Saturday’s game, the Braves led the series 2-1.

The Associated Press contributed to this report.

